We propose to conduct a detailed homogeneous Bayesian analysis of TESS eclipsing
binary (EB) lightcurves (LC) and spectral energy distributions (SED) to extract
the physical properties of these systems, along with detailed information about
the associated, often non-Gaussian and highly correlated, uncertainty
distributions.  Our analysis will build on a preliminary effort from the
literature. However, we will incorporate orders of magnitude more lightcurves,
each with orders of magnitude more time coverage, as well as fully characterize
the uncertainty distributions (which was not done in the original analysis), and
investigate the lightcurves for spot-induced modulations to extract the spin of
the brighter star when possible. We will analyze both the short-cadence
lightcurves produced by the standard TESS pipeline as well as the long-cadence
lightcurves produced by the Quick Look Pipeline processing of full frame images.
SED information will be constructed through a combination of distance and
photometry measurements from other surveys, like Gaia, 2MASS, WISE and others.

We expect to generate a catalog of thousands of well-characterized EBs with
fully characterized probability distributions for their orbital (period,
eccentricity, inclination etc.) and stellar (masses, metallicities, ages, spins)
parameters. 

Such a catalogue will provide the basis for a large number of investigations,
including direct calibration and tests of stellar evolution and stellar
atmosphere modeling, investigation of stellar winds and angular momentum
evolution, characterization of the EB population (the most important source of
false positives for transiting exoplanet detections), spectral synthesis for
galaxy science, studies of galactic dark matter, and many others.  The extended
time coverage of the LCs we will analyze will allow detecting apsidal precession
for some systems.  Combined with spin measurements, this allows constraining the
apsidal precession constants for the stars, which provide one of very few direct
probes into the interiors of stars.  This catalog will also allow qualitatively
more sophisticated studies of stellar and planetary tidal dynamics than what is
possible with similar existing catalogs.  In particular, this will be the first
catalogue that provides exquisitely precise eccentricity measurements for a very
large number of systems to allow investigating how the efficiency with which
tidally distorted stars dissipate energy depends on multiple properties
(frequency and amplitude of the tidal wave, spin of the object, internal
structure etc).  Furthermore, well-characterized EBs are an invaluable control
sample for investigating planetary tides. Tidal studies are the primary interest
of our group in exploiting this catalogue, but as the literature shows other
groups will conduct similar analyses once the data is available. While such
investigations are beyond the scope of this project, the proposed effort is a
necessary first step in that direction.
